In many respects this is the one magic question when it comes to this repository, And to be perfectly honest it has no definite answer. Especially when seasoned developers may or may not agree, see some benefit, and wonder just why it may sound like I am trying to hype up some thing that could have been planned or discussed in a community feedback type of response need depending on the feedback.


I have no good answers and no proper planning in development of this application. I had no build out document or request for proposal here.


This project is the culminationg of years of watching, from a general and tertiery perspective the direction of web development, and due to the overwhelmingly positive nature of nodejs, and what php developers SHOULD be doing and ARE NOT as of December, 2018, with respect to discussing recent optimizations in php7 and the possibility for progressive module and server stack component development and updates, I as a PHP developer and fan am ashamed. I am not well known in any very popular development forums. I have not made myself or been asked to become a member of any core teams. And although I suffer from years of experience in web and application design and development I have more projects I have been asked and agreed not to discuss than those I can and will openly. However, quite frankly nodejs as a topic or point of contention stole a great deal of thunder from some very long time hoped for and positive improvements in the general paradigm shift php7 made with respect to optimization of it's own parsing capabilities with the advent of introducing modern abstraction and prototyping, and the general push for good OOP standards we were lifted with.


What that means is that as WEB developers using any language, we have fewer why's than ever. And with the use of a double you there are plenty of you's and plenty of exciting things happening in the world of standardized markup, custom attributes, accepted box models and so forth. Really the entire focus moving forward is on, You. And so that remains my only good answer. YOU are likely an aspiring or seasoned web developer. You probably grew up with the web, learned coding standards after the rush to object oriented paradigms, and have lots of discussions and contributions to plugins and extensible repositories, forks, and commits that I will never catch up on. But you are also an end user, you want the web, this is an era of data demand, You want your edits cheap, fast, and easy, with as many tools at your disposal in as quick and trendy a presentation as can be had. Which may have played a part in your continued role in well -whatever your role in web development is. You may have seen the rise and fall of in context data base editor editors such as Chive, have watched that once supported project disappear and with it one less choice of a snappy in context rdms option. 



But the why is one question I can answer with simply one word, it was fun. I had reversioned cake alpha installs in the past for php5 and 7 compliance, I prefer to run in strict mode with a full debug runtime level. This is no mid life developer's crisis, but is moreover the result of such noastalgiac and rambling thought processes as caused my disgust with the response some php developers had to nodejs. Watching the progression of ES6/7 in relation to C# and the purponderance for standards compliance, code abstraction and prototyping paradigms has been a real pleasure. But I fell off on it some time ago with too much project work in favor of pushing towards php module development. And in this respect may be some developers are worried about benchmarking because it may feel like nodejs stole some thunder from php7. Personally I couldn't be happier with both, and although the response to switch when application development involves both on some forums is comical it is a pertinent one. And I think outside of the core group, any seasoned or happy application developer should see the opportunities being missed. So, I decided to do some thing that to me was fun, and may serve some purpose, but is wholely un needed.. for now. But I have not put so much thought into this repo or those topics just because nodejs is awesome, or because Wix was sorely needed. Both statements are true, both involve leveraging software in ways that had been almost stifled over the years through fragmented core groups and unsupported, sometimes unrelated technologies and paradigms, Both hit the mark in speed and security.


And no matter what I ponder here, no matter how much attention I pay to detail, or try to balance presentation, with support and extensibility, I will likely not.



I am in no way attempting to challenge Wix, disparage it's developers, scold the PHP community, congratulate nodejs, outperform Wordpress or provide any code release that carries any hopes and dreams other than to simply challenge others to do the same. My system will likely seem unnecessary to most, and will carry far less support and initial extensibility and reception as one stable responsive Wordpress template and a free 128MB server stack with a thirty day trial of Creative Suite. You may find much greater difficulty, for any one of a number of reasons, in using my software over any of those.


There is no reason to reversion cake alpha, let alone one of the core team's first releases, although it can be hot rodded, it maintains a low file count, and can be incredibly efficient with proper routing. I believe in abstraction and prototyping, and I enjoy abstracting the model of a web application from even it's most necessary relational uses in favor of relying on optimizations to calls related to the application server stack itself, expression evaluations, compression techniques, and the like. I am a believer in abstracting the model of MVC from model view controller to BVC, or a Backend View Controller approach. I am a believer in abstracting routes and using proper application directory structures and trees to benefit from this abstraction of the model so in essence it becomes somewhat unnecessary itself. And that general paradigm of View Controller, that methodology, that topology of application design (teh symbology as it were..) is interesting to note with respect to nodejs now isn't it.. I am a believer in bringing back in context editing because it's the future. I have watch markup standards and box models in old terms become accepted while inspectors and style editing functions of every modern web browser setup the user, or the developer, using ANY favorite flavor of browser can easily afford reliance on it's ability to modify even a robust dynamic web application WITHOUT the need for a web template editor, not even Notepad any more!


I was one of a select number of silent majorities who watched Dragonfly and Opera throw these optimizations, even in offered and enabled plugin and browser parameter settings out at the NON web developer, the end user, in their marketing, while other companies looked on. I want a system now that can edit applications, templates, and theme dynamic corporate web sites with the power of Wix and just a bit more responsiveness, no pun intended. I am a believer in Wix as well. I have pulled it apart and had a chuckle, what a fantastic leverage of extensible and proprietery code libraries. Which has brought me to join a long considered concept in context edits, with custom attribution markup, long polished responsive grid layouts into what I feel most are agreeing is the need for FLUIDIC responsive web layouts and in context editable WYSIWYGS. Wix proides this and does so through video introduction, example, and tutorial. I have chosen to do it using modern markup, GridsterJS and a budding editor that REALLY should be a proper extension of gridsterJS, and won't be.


At least not to start, Although it could be. I believe gridsterJS hit the mark, there are some hidden options I've found poor documentation on but it's a win, it is very extensible, and rivals if not totally destroys what the jQueryUI CDN attempted to provide in fluidic and snappable containers. It does this again by giving YOU some thing you need -tutorials, examples, and it's beautiful! jQueryUI, handlebars and a few others just missed the mark on presentation. So I'm combining all of these things with another rarely seen feature in terms of custom, powerful, and freely forked content systems, and that is to combine it with this reversioned frame work, focusing on presentation and a developing wysiwyg, with a powerful and secure session based taxonomical data management feature. WordPress, Drupal and others have hit the mark on this long ago, CakePHP tried to push the ability to bake hard, faltered in 2.0, stood up back well on it's feet with 3.x but in my humble opinion with a performance hit due to it's code base, php7 lag, file count, some what poor documentation and lack of any real good tutorials and examples. In fact, the Bakery itself as a forum for discussion and the cook book is the real reason CakePHP hung on, as I'm sure most developers would agree. It survived Prototype, Script.aculo.us, and as I hope my haphazard and rushed presentation will prove can make a fantastic base for a plugin., MVC, PHP based content system.



I like leaving out the management because that is where I'm going to leave this project as I slowly show off wrapped themes and templates and fork my code base.



I am not sure if I'm going to nail the WYSIWYG properly, As Wix does, as I'd like to. I want my own, custom, as proprietery as ca n be, for fun, and this is a dangerous thing to do if I wished for it to be successful in any development forum. What I've recognized it what Wix does well, which is again a win in presentation. And as a seasoned developer, as I consider myself, I personally think the future for in context editing will be fluidic responsive templates and themes, designed from vanilla ville all the way to your most expensive Illustrator vector file, ultimately using the web browsers own style and markup inspection and editor. Likely complemented by any plugins, tersers, or browser scripting moderation engines for on the go, on the fly debugging and yes even full scale GUI refinement and development. We may see the first standardized acceptance of certain vector formats that will allow for relatable canvas data to be pulled right from development files into the browser with little third party involvement. We are already witnessing every major browser pushing for optimizations that will afford for lightning fast leveraging of asychronous markup and it is no accident to see these settings on by default with the advent of nodejs and ES6/7. We may witness these technologies all integrated to the point where what you see is whatever YOU as a developer OR end user want to see. And so I chose to use gridster as an extensible and quick way to realize a fluidic responsive layout. I have already wrapped it with bootstrap, wrapping skeleton js, vice versa, and promoted it's use with jQuery demos where little other involvement outside of jQuery is made to achieve a responsive mobile friendly layout. And so the why to this repository remains unanswered and well.


Much Much too verbose. My why is because cake php alpha, gridsterjs, bootstrap, skeletonjs, mariadb, php5 or 7, custom markup, and a good enough wysiwyg, promoting in context edits, temporary saves, free template storage, leveraging the power of an already baked or bakable set of 2-3 cake apps as a CMS has just been fun to create. I will show off a paradigm more focused on my favored term, the "Backend view controller".. with proper routes for speed.

I'm going to provide minimal storage., free, a full fledged working taxonomy CRUD base forked, and allow for demos and playground sandboxes using a variety of templates.


And I plan on showing you various ways to achieve such a responsive, powerful setup, leveraging content management however you wish, with demos, storage and perhaps

Just a few predictions for the future, which I don't care to make in any more specific terms, and without the feedback that would cause me to re edit commentary. 
